(logo whooshing)
All right, we've got a little bit
of a bug with our useForm hook that we've written here.
And this is one of my least favorite parts of React.
And it has to do with initial data.
So, we wrote this useForm hook
and if we open up our useForm hook.
What we do here is we take in our initial value.
And when we create our initial state,
we pass it our initial value.
And in our case for creating a product,
we just hard-coded the name, price, description, right?
However, with the update function, the initial state must be
like the existing data that we've pulled
in from the database, right?
And when you load the page here, it works just fine.
And that's because the initial load
of that is happening on the server.
And there is no loading state on the server.
The server simply just waits for the data to come back
from our graph QL API.
However, on the Client, there is a loading state.
So, you have the sort of like
you load the component, it loads for a quick second.
And then it gets the data back and then it runs it.
So, you might be thinking, "Okay, well, Wes,
"you just need to wait for the data to come back
"from the single product,
"before you can pass it to useForm."
And we actually...
I actually just tried that.
I just said, if it's loading then return P loading, right?
And the error that we get from that is that...
Here, let's take a look at what it is.
So, now we don't get it here
because there was no loading state.
But if you go to another one that gets...
Like right here, edit, we get the problem.
Rendered more hooks than the previous render,
is if you have...
The hooks must always be rendered every single time
that happens.
So, if it first renders
and this is all it's loading and just returns to this
and then loading is no longer false,
so it creates some more hooks.
For some reason, React, doesn't like that, I'm not sure why.
There's probably some complicated deep down thing.
That is the reason behind that, but that becomes a bit
of a problem for us because we don't wanna create
the useForm until we have the data.
So, what we need to do is go into our useForm.
The solution is pretty, pretty simple.
It's just understanding the problem.
I think it's probably the harder part is that we need to go
into our form and say, when the initial data changes,
like we go from loading to actually having the data,
then we need to update it.
And the way that you do that is with useEffect.
useEffect will allow us to monitor pieces of state
or monitor variables.
And when those variables change, we can run some code.
And that's helpful for a whole bunch of stuff, if you're...
Maybe if you were subscribing to a database
and you needed to send some data off when a change happens.
But in our case, when the undefined initial state
of loading path changes to an actual object full of data,
then we need to update it.
So, we'll say useEffect here and whew!
Let's not use the boiler plate for that.
Make sure we import useEffect from React, okay?
And then useEffect takes, first thing is,
a function that will run.
So, it we'll just say console log.
Not console, we'll just put a comment here.
This function runs when the things we are watching change.
And what are the things we are watching?
Will you pass it in an array of things to watch?
And initially I thought, okay, well,
we'll just, we'll watch for initial to change, right?
Because if the thing that we are thinking is changing
is the initial value that's being passed in,
can we not just wait and watch for initial to be changed?
And when that happens,
we simply just run a set inputs initial, right?
And this will work, but it will cause an infinite loop.
And I'm gonna explain why, because what happens is that
when the initial value initially comes in,
we set it to state, right, right here.
Then when the initial value changes
from that first undefined in loading state to the second,
which is the actual item with the name, the price
and the description on it,
what happens is that it triggers a change.
And then we call set inputs,
which then updates our initial state.
But that changes what initial is,
because useState doesn't just update the object.
It actually overwrites the entire object
to a brand new object.
So, what that does is (chuckles)
it updates state to initial object, which causes a change,
which updates state to initial object,
which causes a change,
which updates state to initial object and causes a change.
And then, and then on and on and on and on
and then that will spin out of control
and crash your dev tools and your browser,
because that's an infinite loop.
So, what we need to do is we need something in here,
that we can watch that will basically be trigger the change.
And what I've come up with here is why don't we just
watch the actual values on the, on the object.
And when the values on the object go from nothing
like the name, the price, and the description go
from nothing to something,
then we know it's actually changed.
And the reason we do that is we can't necessarily check.
Like we could just pass like initial.name here.
And when the initial.name value changes,
then we know it's changed.
But we don't always know if we're gonna have a name value
on our form.
It might be anything.
So, what we can do here is we just say const initialvalues
is equal to object.values.
And we pass it our initial.
And what that will do is it gives us an array
of our actual object.
So, object., let me show you here.
Object.values.
If we have an object that says name.
That's Wes and age is 100.
That gives us an array of the actual values.
And you may think, "Okay, we'll just pass that here."
And that will be, I think that'll be enough.
Another thing you can do here is just put a .join
on the end, and that will just give you a string.
I think I like that approach best.
So, basically, we're taking all the values
and passing it in.
And when it goes, this will only happen once.
It will go from a string of nothing to a string of
the default values that are coming in,
which is the name, the price and the description.
And then that should give us a value.
I do have an Eastland error,
where it tells us to have an exhaustive dependencies,
but because of this set state issue,
I'm gonna let it slide 'cause I think that's the best work
around for that type of thing.
So now, if we go to our products.
And edit one of them,
you see that the value shows up and that bug is gone.
(mouse clicks)